## Statistical Analysis {#sec-statistical-analysis}

We used the R package Hierarchical Modelling of Species Communities (HMSC) framework to explore how biotic and abiotic interactions drive mosquito larval distribution across the SLM [@ovaskainenHowMakeMore2017; @ovaskainenJointSpeciesDistribution2020]. This implementation of a Bayesian multivariate hierarchical generalized mixed linear model aims to alleviate the interdependency of species responses to the environment and species responses to each other in the ecosystem, by modelling all species simultaneously and accounting for each species responses to measured and unmeasured environmental covariates through latent variable factors [@wilkinsonComparisonJointSpecies2019].

We collected a total of 402 data points from 17 different sampling areas. To account for seasonality, we attempted sampling three times per year over a three-year period from 2009 to 2011. After excluding inaccessible areas and water bodies that were dried or drained during certain seasons and therefore unsuitable for sampling, we identified 320 unique sampling points that were used in our model and represent 67 distinct combinations of site, season, and year. In these unique sampling points, we excluded all species that occurred less than ten times to increase model stability [@ovaskainenJointSpeciesDistribution2020]. In this case we consider the presence of plant species as an abiotic driver as we expect them to function as a regulator of population fitness through shielding of predation or similar processes [@sahaHabitatComplexityReduces2009].

To understand how biotic and abiotic factors determine mosquito population presence, we utilized a multivariate probit model that was fitted to the presence-absence data obtained from our sampling sites with our abiotic covariates used as predictive variables on a linear scale (@tbl-predictors). To account for potential spatial biases in the sampling data, we incorporated a distance matrix that represented the spatial scales between each sampling unit as a spatially structured random effect. Furthermore, we considered the impact of repeated sampling at sites and the temporal effects of sampling methods by including a nested random effect that accounted for both the year of sampling and the season within that year. In addition, we aimed to construct abundance models that included the same covariates, as we hypothesized that biotic interactions would have a greater impact on species abundance rather than species presence. However, due to the high complexity of the model, it was deemed computationally infeasible to achieve an acceptable fit [@howardImprovingSpeciesDistribution2014].

For model fitting, we used the custom Bayesian sampling procedure from the HMSC package [@tikhonovHmscHierarchicalModel2022]. Each model was fitted with 4 MCMC chains with 1000 samples per chain at a thinning rate of 1000 for a total of 4 million MCMC samples in total. Convergence was measured using Gelman and Rubens potential scale reduction factor (PSRF), and values under \>1.1 are considered converged [@gelmanInferenceIterativeSimulation1992]. Goodness of fit was measured using species-specific Tjur's R2 values and the area under curve (AUC) statistic [@loboAUCMisleadingMeasure2008; @tjurCoefficientsDeterminationLogistic2009]. Predictive power of models was measured using k-fold (k=5) cross validation and measuring the AUC statistic. To better understand the drivers behind community composition, we want to understand the importance of each predictor variable in our model. Here we can address the variance contributed to the model through each explanatory variable by performing variance partitioning analysis [see 69-70, @ovaskainenJointSpeciesDistribution2020].

To understand if management practices impact the presence of mosquitoes, we undertook a post-hoc analysis of all covariates that were significantly associated with mosquito presence. Bayesian multivariate models were built in the probabilistic programming language Stan using the BRMS package in R [@burknerBrmsBayesianRegression2022; @carpenterStanProbabilisticProgramming2017]. We modelled the significant covariates in separate models against management level as a categorical factor, with both a random effect for site and a nested random effect of season within year to account for spatio-temporal differences in covariate distribution.

# Results {#sec-results}

## Sampling {#sec-sampling}

We recorded 12 different taxa present in the SLM that occurred more than 10 times (Table 3). We captured and identified 6825 mosquito larvae. *Culiseta annulata* (n = 3250, 47.1%) and *Cu pipiens* (n = 3248, 47.1%) were most abundant, while *Anopheles maculipennis* (n = 105, 1.52%) and *Anopheles claviger* (n = 292, 4.23%) were less abundant. *An. maculipennis* were most prevalent, occurring in 13% of the data points, followed by *Cu. annulata* (12%), *An. claviger* (11%), *Cx. pipiens* (10%), and lastly *Ocherlotatus caspius* which was present in just a single site (\> 0.1%). Because of the low abundance and low prevalence, *Och. Caspius* was omitted from the subsequent analysis \[see S1\].

Of the sampled macro invertebrate predators, we identified eight taxa that were prevalent enough to consider in this statistical analysis (Table 3). Of these taxa, four had particularly high prevalence and abundance across the sites, with *Coleoptera* present in the most sampling units (27%, n = 308), followed by *Corixidae* which were also the most abundant predator species (26%, n = 647), *Zygoptera* (25%, n = 349) and *Coleoptera* larvae (19%, n = 139). The other four taxa had a much lower prevalence and abundance across all sampling units, including *Gammaridae* (8%, n = 103), *Anisoptera* (5%, n = 31), *Ilyocoris cimicoides* (3%, n = 19) and *Nepa cinerea* (3%, n = 11).