# Results
## Sampling
We recorded 12 different taxa present in the SLM that occurred more than 10 times (Table 3). We captured and identified 6825 mosquito larvae. _Culiseta annulata_ (n = 3250, 47.1%) and Culex pipiens (n = 3248, 47.1%) were most abundant, while _Anopheles maculipennis_ (n = 105, 1.52%) and _Anopheles claviger_ (n = 292, 4.23%) were less abundant. An. maculipennis were most prevalent, occurring in 13% of the data points, followed by _Cu. annulata_ (12%), _An. claviger_ (11%), _Cx. pipiens_ (10%), and lastly _Ocherlotatus caspius_ which was present in just a single site (> 0.1%). Because of the low abundance and low prevalence, _Och. Caspius_ was omitted from the subsequent analysis [@SUPPINFO_A]. 

Of the sampled macro invertebrate predators, we identified eight taxa that were prevalent enough to consider in this statistical analysis (Table 3). Of these taxa, four had particularly high prevalence and abundance across the sites, with _Coleoptera_ present in the most sampling units (27%, n = 308), followed by _Corixidae_ which were also the most abundant predator species (26%, n = 647), _Zygoptera_ (25%, n = 349) and _Coleoptera_ larvae (19%, n = 139). The other four taxa had a much lower prevalence and abundance across all sampling units, including _Gammaridae_ (8%, n = 103), _Anisoptera_ (5%, n = 31), _Ilyocoris cimicoides_ (3%, n = 19) and _Nepa cinerea_ (3%, n = 11).

## Model Fit
Convergence of the HMSC model was satisfactory, with all chains and parameters converging successfully (PSRF > 1.01) with an effective number of samples (SUPP). Model runtime was 107 hours on a intel i5 10500T @2.3GHz using an R docker environment configured with OpenBlas [@nustRockerversePackagesApplications2020]. All AUC values for each species are 0.7 or higher, suggesting very good explanatory performance, and adequate predictive performance [@Supp Info]. 

## Variance Partitioning
We examined the importance of each covariate in our model in explaining the presence of species distributions by partitioning the variation explained by each of these covariates [@borcardPartiallingOutSpatial1992]. The model managed to capture a substantial proportion of total variance for most mosquito species, _Cs. annulata_ (53%), _Cx. pipiens_ (40%) and _An. claviger_ (23%), with _An. maculipennis_ (13%) performing the worst (Table. 4, Fig. 3). Across mosquito species, we found that spatiotemporal effects accounted for on average 43% (S.D. 18%) of all variation explained by the models (Fig. 2A). Spatial random effects accounted for substantial variation in Culicine species which contrasts directly with the low values reported for Anopheline species (Table. 4). Temporal effects explained less variation in presence of mosqui_to species compared_ to other invertebrates, and little in Anopheline species (Table. 4, Fig. 2). 

## Species Responses
 _Cs. annulata_ w _s significantly positively_ correlated   with high turbidity, high pH and low salinity water characteristics. _Cs. annulata_ was also associated with shadier areas and narrower waterbodies. _Cx. pipiens_ presence was significantly correlated with wider waterbodies, water with higher pH and in areas where floating vegetation cover was less (Fig 3). _An. claviger_ was significantly more likely to be found in areas with narrow waterbodies, low percentage cover of floating vegetation and more shaded environments (Fig 3). _An. maculipennis_ was only significantly associated with higher pH values, while being significantly associated with less shady environments. 

We found significant positive residual species associations between all mosquito species except _An. maculipennis_ after accounting for environmental responses in the HMSC model. Additionally, we found that all species of mosquito expect _An. maculipennis_ show significant negative associations with potential predator taxa including _Coleoptera_, _Anisoptera_ and _Zygoptera_, _Corixidae_ and _Gammaridae_. _Ilyocoris_, _Anisoptera_ larvae and _Nepa_ _cinerea_ do not show any significant associations with any other species. All other predator species show significant positive associations with one another (Fig 3).

## Differences in covariates between management tiers 
We found that vegetation varied significantly between the Tiered management levels. In general we found a shift from lots of floating vegetation and smaller emergent and vertical vegetation in Tier 1, to taller vegetation that was overhanging and more prevalent in Tier 3 areas with little floating vegetation. 

When vertical vegetation was present it was on average 20cm taller in Tier 3 areas than Tier 1 and this was signfiicant (95% CI\[1.5, 42.9\]). The chances of there being no vertical vegetation in Tier 3 was 20% less likely than in Tier 1 and this was significant (95% CI \[-0.29, -0.10\]). Similarly, we found that emergent vegetation was 29% more likely to be present in Tier 3 areas (95% CI \[-0.39, -0.18\]), but when emergent vegetation was present there was no significant difference in the height of that vegetation (95% CI \[-0.39, 11.4\]). There was no measurable difference in the probability of floating vegetation cover being 0% (95% CI\[-0.15, 0.06\]) or 100% (95% CI\[-0.1, 0.04\]) between tiers, but on average there was 10% less floating vegetation cover in Tier 3 areas than in Tier 1 areas and this was significant (95% CI\[-0.18, -0.01\]). The amount of shaded area did not vary significantly between tiers (95% CI\[-0.26, 0.01\]), but the probability of a waterbody being completely shaded was 48% higher in Tier 3 areas than Tier 1 (95% CI\[-0.8, -0.2\]), and the probability of a waterbody having no shade was 10% more likely in Tier 3 areas (95% CI\[0.03, 0.016\]).

We found that the physicochemical characteristics of the tiers were very similar and did not vary significantly between management strategies. Waterbodies were 8.45cm wider in Tier 3 managed areas, but this difference was not statistically significant (95%CI \[-7, 24\]). There was no measurable difference in turbidity (95% CI \[-0.18, 0.16\]) or salinity (95% CI \[-0.14, 0.12\]) between the management tiers. Lastly, pH values were -0.3 lower in Tier 3 areas but this was non-significant (95% CI \[-0.6, 0.03\]).  

