# Discussion
Our study provides the first assessment of the impacts of abiotic and biotic factors on mosquito community composition in coastal grazing marshes in the UK, including factors arising from changes in wetland management. We find that management strategy of these tiers creates differences in vegetative complexity and has the ability to influence mosquito species composition between these management strategies. 

## Abiotic
Here our results affirm findings in previous literature, mosquito species responded significantly to the vegetational complexity in this study, and often aligned with known ecology of species. For example we found that _An. maculipennis_ was characterised as preferring more open habitats that were wider and exposed to more sunlight, but _An. claviger_ was associated closely with waterbodies that were smaller, more shaded and had little floating vegetation [@hawkesWetlandMosquitoSurvey2020; @medlockSeasonalDynamicsHabitat2015]

The vegetative complexity of an area can influence mosquito community composition through the provision of microhabitats for mosquito larvae and adults. Mosquito larvae tend to thrive in areas with high vegetative complexity, such as wetlands and marshes, due to the presence of a variety of aquatic plants that provide shelter, food, and protection from predators [@beckerMosquitoesTheirControl2010; @medlockEffectClimateChange2015]. Additionally, adult mosquitoes also benefit from vegetative complexity as it provides them with shade and protection from the sun and wind [@beckerMosquitoesTheirControl2010]. Previous findings have shown that areas with higher vegetative complexity tend to have a greater diversity and abundance of mosquitoes, a review by @reyNorthAmericanWetlands2012 found that wetlands with high vegetative complexity had a greater diversity of mosquito species compared to wetlands with low vegetative complexity.

Our analysis revealed that the physicochemical characteristics of the water played a major role in explaining the variation in occurrence among mosquito species (as shown in Figure 2 and Table 4). The relationship between water temperature, turbidity, salinity, and pH on mosquito life history is complex and varies among species. For example, _Cu. annulata_ exhibits a negative response to saline waters, despite its larvae being tolerant of brackish waters present in coastal floodplains [@marshallBritishMosquitoes1938]. Prior studies have also shown that turbid waters tend to reduce predator efficacy, particularly with algal turbidity on mosquito larval populations [@cano-rocabayeraMosquitoLarvaeConsumption2020; @utne-palmVisualFeedingFish2002]. We found that three species of mosquito, _Cs. annulata_, _Cx. pipiens_ and_ An. maculipennis_, were all positively associated with higher pH environments (Fig. 3A). 

Higher pH values can be associated with increased fertiliser runoff which typically holds a high pH value, because Tier 3 areas are more heavily restricted in fertiliser usage, we would expect to higher species richness in Tier 3 areas, but we find no significant difference in pH levels between management tiers. However, Tier 1 fertiliser usage is already restricted to lower levels than typically used for grazing pasture (Table. 1) and our results suggest that if fertiliser levels were increased, we may find species that are adaptable to polluted waters becoming more prevalent in these areas such as _Cx. pipiens_ and _Cs. annulata_ [@omearaSeasonalVariationAbundance2010]. 

Considering the results of our study we show that modifying habitat structure through vegetation management would be more effective in altering or influencing mosquito community composition, as demonstrated in other temperate climates [@reyNorthAmericanWetlands2012]. We should reiterate that often times decreasing vegetation complexity can negatively impact biodiversity of mosquitoes as mentioned above, as well as potential predator species, thus the conflicted pressures of biodiversity and mosquito management must be carefully considered. Despite the minimal impact of physicochemical charecterstics of the waterbody for mosquito species, we fail to consider the relationships between these characteristics and the resultant composition of the vegetation. It is not unlikely that these water parameters would influence the makeup of a vegetative community which we have shown is intrinsicly linked to mosquito larvae habitat preference [FIG] , and this deserves future investigation to understand the complex relationship between all these factors. However, considering the relatively small geographic scale of our sampling and the long historic management of the Somerset Levels and relatively minimal variation in water chemistry characteristics we believe these differences would be minimal in this instance

## Biotic
When examing residual correlations between species using joint species distribution modelling frameworks we should be cautious of over-interpretation, these residual correlations can be due to shared response to missing environmental drivers, common habitat preferences and close phylogenetic relationships, so conclusions of these "interactions" should draw reasonable scepticism if resutls are not in line with expected or known ecology [@dormannBioticInteractionsSpecies2018]. Our findings reveal a strong positive association among three mosquito species, An. claviger, Cu. pipiens, and Cu. annulata (Figure 5). This association between Cx. pipiens and Cs. annulata, is expected given their shared versatility in adapting to a variety of habitats [@clementsBiologyMosquitoes1992], though they are likely to compete for similar resources within these environments. This suggest that the effect of interspecific competition on their distribution is less important than habitat requirements on prevalence [@chandrasegaranHowTraitMediatedNonlethal2019; @stavIndividualInteractiveEffects2005]. 

All mosquito species except _An. maculipennis_show negative associations with most predator taxa (Fig 5). _Anisoptera_, _Zygoptera_ and _Gammaridae_ are known predators of mosquito species, consuming a substantial number of larvae each day [@medlockNaturalPredatorsParasites2008; @robertsResponsesThreeSpecies2012; @sahaPredationPotentialOdonates2012]. This highlights the importance of maintaining high levels of biodiversity to maintain natural biological predators of mosquitoes in abundance. These results mimic findings showing how Odonata provide effective management of mosquito larvae through predation and have been utilized in areas as a control agent [@chandraMosquitoControlLarvivorous2008]. Ensuring that wetland environments are suitable for macroinvertebrate predators studied here also may also boost populations of other mosquito predators typically associated with wetlands, such as anurans and fish species which are known effective biological control agents [@chandraMosquitoControlLarvivorous2008; @sahaPredationPotentialOdonates2012; @benelliBiologicalControlMosquito2016]. This inherent link biodiversity of wetland mosquito predator species and mosquito population control should be carefully considered when implementing new legislation or management practices, as these predators can provide regulating services that may minimise nuisance biting or potential disease risk in surrounding areas.

# Conclusions
In the Somerset Levels and Moors we show the importance of vegetation as a driver of mosquito prevelance and community composition. Our study suggests that decreased mechanical intervention to control vegetation in grassland wetlands, through mowing, ditching and brinking, could lead to an increase in _Cu. pipiens_ and _Cu. annulata_, of which _Cu. pipiens_ is a prevelant nuisance biter and known vector of several mosquito borne diseases (West Nile Virus, Sindbis, Usutu. However, decreased mechanical intervention of habitats may be required as part of future or ongoing agri-envrionment schemes and the aims of these schemes should be carefully balanced with mosquito control objectives and any disease risk. We also show that vegetation management  and creation of open sunlit waterbodies is likely to increase the suitability of the habitat for species such as _An. maculipennis_ [@medlockImpactsCreationExpansion2015; @hawkesWetlandMosquitoSurvey2020]. Considering the abundance of Culicine species in this study was 10-30 times that of Anopheline species despite having very similar prevalence rates this may be a favourable management strategy for reducing the density of nuisance biting species in a wetland area (Table. 2).

For example, in the UK, WNV is largely considered to be a more prominent problem than the re-emergence of malaria given future climate predictions and current geographical spread and vector status of native species [@arinaminpathyFutureUKLand2009; @medlockEffectClimateChange2015]. In such a case it may be preferable from a disease management perspective to limit the range of habitats suitable for Culicine species where waterfowl (a large reservoir population) are also present and WNV risk is increased and instead opt for habitats that promote predominantly Anopheline dominant community compositions to manage relative disease risk. However as discussed in @reyNorthAmericanWetlands2012 the trade-off between wetland restoration and mosquito borne disease risk must be carefully managed to achieve a risk-benefit balance acceptable for policy makers that deliver on providing ecosystem services while minimising MBD risk. Here we have shown the utility of joint modelling techniques in determining the driving factors of mosquito community composition between contrasting management tiers and the subsequent differences this has for MBD risk (Fig. 2, 3).  

In the future, integration of joint modelling techniques and empirical datasets as presented here could work in tandem with existing ecosystem service modelling frameworks and other biodiversity modelling methods to provide an effective way to maximise the output of wetland areas while minimising the risk of MBD in the future.
